this lecture is about the probabilistic
latent semantic analysis or PSA in this
lecture we're going to introduce
probabilistic latent semantic analysis
often called a pasa this is the most
basic atomic model also one of the most
useful topic models now this kind of
models can in general be used to mine
multiple topics from text documents and
PRSA is one of the most basic atomic
models for doing this so let's first
examine this problem in a little bit
more detail here I show a sample article
which is a product article about
Hurricane Katrina and I show you some
sample topics for example governmental
response flooding of the city in your
audience donation and the background you
can see in the article we use words from
all these distributions and so we first
for example see there's a criticism of
government response and this is a folder
by discussion of flooding of the city
and donation et cetera we also see
background words are mixed with them
right so the goal of topic analysis here
is try to decode these topics behind the
text to segment the topics to figure out
which words are from which distribution
and to figure out the first what are
these topics so how do we know there's a
topic about governmental response
there's a topic about the flooding of
the city so these are the tasks of a
topic model if we can discover these
topics can color these words as you see
here to separate the different topics
then you can do a lot of things such as
summarization or segmentation of topics
clustering of sentences etc so the
formal definition of the problem of
mining multiple topics from text is
shown here and this is after the slide
that you have seen in an earlier lecture
so the input is a collection the number
of topics and the vocabulary set and of
course the text data right and then the
output is
of two kinds one is the topical category
characterization see the eyes
each sei is a water distribution and
second it's the topic of coverage for
each document these are PI some IDs and
they tell us which document covers which
topic at to what extent so we hope to
generate these as output because there
are many useful applications if we can
do that so the idea of pls a is actually
very similar to the two component
mixture model that we have already
introduced the only difference is that
we're going to have more than two topics
otherwise it's essentially the same so
here i
Allu straight how we can generate the
text there are with multiple topics and
naturally in all cases of probabilistic
modeling would that want to figure out
the likelihood function so we will also
ask the question what's the probability
of observing a world w from such a
mixture model now if you look at this
picture and compare this which is the
picture that we have seen earlier you
will see the only difference is that we
have added more topics here so before we
have just a one topic besides the
background a topical but now we have
more topics specifically we have K
topics now all these are topics that we
assume that exist in the text data so
the consequence is that our switch for
choosing a topic now is Marta where
switch before it's just the two ways
which we're going to think of that as
flipping a coin but now we have much
choice
first we can flip a coin to decide
whether we talk about the background so
it's the background lambda sub B versus
non background so this 1 minus lambda
sub B gives us the probability of
actually choosing a topic enum
background top and after we have made
this decision we have to make another
decision to choose one of these pay
distributions so there's a que way
switch here and this is characterized by
the PI's and there's some one
so this is just the different design of
switches a little bit more complicated
but once we tease decide which
distribution to use the rest is the same
we're going to just generate the word by
using one of these distributions as you
hear okay so now let's look at this
question about the likelihood so what's
the probability of observing a word from
such a distribution what do you think
now we've seen this problem many times
now and if you can recall it's generally
a sum over all the different
possibilities of generating the world so
let's first look at the how the word can
be generated from the background model
well the probability that the word is
generated from the background model is
lambda multiplied by the probability of
the word from the background model right
two things must happen first we have to
have chosen the background model and
that's probability of lambda sub B then
the second we must have actually
obtained the word W from the background
and that's probability of W given theta
sub P okay so similarly we can figure
out the probability of observing the
word from another topic like a tropical
theta sub k now note that the here's a
product of three terms and that's
because the choice of topic theta sub K
only happens if two things happen one is
we decided not to talk about background
so that's probability 1 minus lambda sub
B second we also have to actually choose
citizens of K among these K topics so
that's probability of theta sub K or PI
and similarly the probability of
generating a word from the second topic
and first opera public are like what you
are seeing here and then so in the end
of the probability of observing the word
is just the sum of all these cases and I
have to stress again this is a very
important formula to know because this
is really key to know to understanding
all the topic models and indeed a lot of
mixed
models so make sure that you really
understand the probability of W is
indeed the sum of these terms so next
once we have the likelihood function we
would be interested in knowing the
parameters also to estimate the premise
but first let's put all these together
to have the complete likelihood function
for P is a now the first line shows the
probability of a word as illustrated on
the previous slide and this is important
formula as I say and so let's take a
closer look at this this actually
contains all the important parameters so
first we see lambdas of B here this
represents the percentage of background
words that we believe exist in the text
data and this can be a known value that
we step empirically second we see the
background language model and typically
we also assume this is known we can use
a large collection of text or use all
the text there are we have available to
estimate the word distribution now next
in the rest of this formula excuse me
you see two interesting and kinds of
parameters those are the most important
parameters that we are effed so one is
PI's and these are the coverage of topic
in the document and the other is the
word distributions that characterize all
the topics so the next line then is
simply to plug this in to calculate the
probability of a document this is again
of the familiar form where you have a
Sun and you have a counter of a word in
the document and then log of a
probability now it's it's a little bit
more complicated than the two component
that because now we have more components
so the sum involves more terms and then
this line is just the like holder for
the whole collection and it's very
similar just accounting for more
documents in the connection so what are
the unknown parameters I already say
that there are two kinds
on its coverage one is a water
distribution again it's a useful
exercise for you to figure out exactly
how many pram is there are here how many
unknown parameters are there now try to
figure out that question will help you
understand the model in more detail and
it all would also allow you to
understand what would be the output that
we generate when we use PRSA to analyze
text data and these are precisely the
unknown parameters so after we have
obtained the likelihood function shown
here the next is to worry about the
parameters mission and we can do the
usual scene maximum likelihood estimator
so again the constrained optimization
problem like what we have seen before
only that we have a collection of texts
and we have more parameters to estimate
and we still have two constraints
different constraint two kinds of
constraints one is the word
distributions all the words must have
probabilities that summed one for one
distribution the other is the topic
coverage distribution and a document we
have to cover precisely these K topics
so the probability of covering each a
topical would have to sum to one so at
this point it's basically we're defined
apply the math problem you just need to
figure out the solutions to an
optimization problem there's a function
with many variables and we need to just
a figure out the values of these
variables to make the function reach its
maximum